---
layout: post
title: The Governing Dynamics- 1
author: evi1haxor
---

> "If we lived on a planet where nothing changed, there would be little to do. There would be nothing to figure out. There would be no impetus for Science. And if we lived in an unpredictable world, where things changed in random or very complex ways, we would not be able to figure things out. But we live in an in-between Universe, where things change, but according to a pattern, rules or as we call them, laws of nature."

I just quoted in, a snippet from the book *Cosmos*, chapter III, *The Harmony of the worlds*. Superfluously telling, we live in a world of culture. Which protests going against what predestined. And its this behaviour made human, since the dawning of the civilisation, to predict the nature of happenings around him. Ancient sculptures and monuments suggests that human have been enormously curious and attracted towards the night sky. Far far from the modern age, they used to look up at night sky, and pondered about the shapes that those bright dots makes on a dark background. And ofcourse, about there seasonal and periodical appearance and desappearance. They formed a bear, young woman, a balance, fish, lion, pheonix and whatnot! But among all those blotches, some vagrant dots troubled them. They were five in total, lurked about all constellations in a periodic manner. Now, they are called planets. Ancient astronomers did some complex calculations to define the time and period of their appearance and associated constellation. "How're you so sure about their captivation?" you ask...then I say- So do you think its just an accident that on 21st June, the longest day of the year, in Chaco Canyon in New Mexico, a shaft of sunlight enters a window at dawn and slowly moves so that it covers a special niche. Not only this, the antique monuments of Egypt and England and Rome, all these suggests an intelligent excogitation. As human learned agriculture, these calculations helped him a lot in pinpointing the season for sowing and harvesting. So you see they played an important role then, and nowadays, apart from space projects and night-sky-gazing, the same calculations are used in astrology bull:-)t. They claim that the planetary configuration at the time of your birth affects your near and far future. During 1610s, the word **Gimcrackery** was coined to explain such things only! (__pun intended__)

I use to read *Carl Sagan*. Once, distraughted by such incoherence, he mentioned..
> At parties, when I meet people who do not know I'm scientist, I am sometimes asked "Are you *Gemini*?" (chance of success, one in twelve), or "What sign are you?" Much more rarely am I asked, "Have you heard that gold is made in supernova explosions?" or "When do you think Congress will approve a Mars Rover?"

It explains a lot. 

## Take me to your Leader
### The Master mind.
It all started 4.6 billion years ago when sun just turned on anew. While the sun was heating up, there were hundreds and thousands of large clumps of gases and rocks orbiting around the brightness. Those gases were blew away by the tremendous solar winds. Moreover, the gases weren't any near to the sun. Because sun formation might haven't allowed lighter, smaller and gaseous reservoire of particles in the inner solar system. Even today we see, Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars are predominantly solid rocks while beyond astroid belt, we have gas giants. All this happened just after the sun tuned on, then next millions of years witnessed a battle for supremacy between hundreds of rocks may be smaller or bigger than the earth. *Survival for the fittest!* law let only five planets to sustain in their descret orbits. "Five?" you ask, "Is it the asteroid belt counting?" you add..I explain- Nope! Asteroid belt isn't the remains of planet destroyed, actually they are some of those debris of rocks which once orbited round with many others, which now are in us, on our desks, may be you are sitting over some part of them, or some part of them might have now become some part of you, etc.. Instead, the fifth count i made was for something called planet Theia(and I don't know how to pronounce it. May be *theya* with *then* type pronunciation of *th*). 

There's a theory about how moon formed on collision of planet Theia with the Earth. But I invite you to invite my next post **The Governing Dynamics- 2** for more. Till then, ponder..
> Why Are You?
